# Course Recommender System – Machine Learning Project
## Project Description
This project is part of the capstone module of the IBM Machine Learning Specialization, its main purpose is to apply the different techniques and concepts learned all throughout the specialization and put them together in a simple yet functional application.
The recommender system intends to generate course recommendations based on different approaches such as: user profile, course similarity, clustering, collaborative filtering, course rating predictions using neural networks and others. The recommendations should be aligned with the courses of interest for a specific user. Thus, providing recommendations that are suitable to the user’s interest or even recommending courses the user did not really think he would be interested in.
It is expected that the recommendations generated with the different approaches keep a close relationship between them yet are not the same. This endowed the app with the capabilities to generate different list of recommendations in case of being necessary.
Building this project came with some extra challenges: putting together the different methods in one single application, getting to know and use the streamlit library and understanding the workflow behind all the recommendations methods.

## EDA
The data for developing this project is provided by IBM. This data includes information about the courses available, their descriptions, the topics they fit in, the status of the courses each user is enrolled in, the bag of words for each course (which was previously obtained), a similarity matrix between the courses, information about the topics each user is interested in.
Some meaningful insights:
•	The most popular genres are Backend development and those associated with Data Science and cloud computing. The less popular courses are those associated with Blockchain and building chatbots.
It is interesting to notice that python courses are more popular than R courses, being these two languages the most popular for Data Science.
•	Many users enroll in just one or two courses and many of them in less than ten. Just a few users enroll in a great number of courses. This might show that most users have clearly defined interests.
•	In the twenty most popular courses the most of them are strongly related to Data Science and Python. There are some of them related to containers, blockchain and databases.
•	Elaborating a word cloud clearly reflects the topics of the most popular courses which are: Data Science, machine learning, Python, containers, databases, big data. It is strongly correlated with the list shown in the previous slide.



## Machine Learning
To create the course recommender system several methods from supervised and unsupervised learning were selected.

### Unsupervised learning
User profile – based: Recommendations generated considering the user profile and the course genre.
Course similarity – based: Recommendations generated considering the similarities between courses, using a similarity matrix created from the BoW of each course.
User profile clustering: Recommendations generated considering the cluster the user belongs to and the new, popular, unseen courses other users from the same cluster have enrolled in. The clustering algorithm used is KMeans, the number of clusters is selected using the elbow method. In addition to that, KMeans clustering was also implemented using PCA, taking the components that explained 90% of the variance of the data.

### Supervised learning | Collaborative filtering
KNN – based: Recommendations are generated using the KNN - surprise library from scikit-learn.
NMF – based: Recommendations are generated using the NMF – surprise library from scikit-learn.
Neural Network Embedding – based: Recommendations are generated by predicting the rating of each new course for a user using a neural network architecture, which takes two one-hot encoded vectors as inputs, transforms them into two embedding vectors in the embedding layer and finally execute the dot product between then and pass forward the result to an activation function. The network was created using the keras.Model module and takes an embedding size of 16.

A functional Streamlit app was built to showcase the results obtained from the different approaches mentioned above. The app allows the user to choose the method used to get the recommendations, set the number of recommendations he\she is interested in, and in some of the methods it allows to set a threshold for filtering the recommendations as well. 

## Findings
It is important to mention that given the nature of the application, there is no one best way to generate the recommendations. There are several ways to generate them that produce different results and that is actually a plus for the application.
As expected, the recommendations generated by each different approach are aligned with the interest of the user. It is also important to mention that these recommendations differ slightly or greatly between approaches.
It is noticeable that similar approaches (user profile and course similarity for example) generate similar list of recommendations while very different approaches generate very different list of recommendations (user profile and Neural Networks for example).
The variability in the recommendations generated for the different approaches endowed the app with the capabilities to generate different lists of recommendations in case of being necessary widening the range of courses that are recommended.
For a live app, the KNN based recommender system might be too slow or even rash at times. It is widely outperformed by the NMF method offering similar results.
Even though the Neural Network is the slowest approach, given that the model is trained live, the time it takes is sensible and the quality of its recommendations makes it an interesting approach.
This kind of application is useful in the education industry, e-commerce industry, entertainment industry among others.

## How can it be better?
Computing power is a limitation for generating the recommendations using the neural network, being this the slowest method. With more computing power it could be faster, and the final user will wait less time to get the recommendation list.
With more time, the neural network architecture could be refined to get better performance out of it.
Given that not all the methods mentioned in the “Machine Learning” chapter were implemented, implementing all of them could widen the possibilities for the final user to get more varied lists of recommendations in case it is necessary.

## Instructions to run the project
To run this project, you will need:
* An IDE or text editor
*	Python 3.7 – 3.9
*	PIP
*	Create a virtual environment for building the Streamlit
*	Install the required libraries mentioned in the file requirements.txt
*	Run the command: streamlit run recommender_app.py
